Hi, my name is Cindy Fraser.
I teach French immersion language arts.
Social studies, pemf
and personal wellness in grade
eight here at George Street Middle School.
So today I'm going to discuss,
my cross-curricular approach to,
the feel,
curriculum, French immersion language arts
curriculum and personal wellness.
And how I've combined the two,
to address
all the outcomes in the limited time
that we're given.
Essentially, we were tasked with teaching
two curriculums in the time for one.
So, I started last year by
looking at the personal wellness outcomes
and how I might be able to address them
in their second language.
Kind of get a two for one situation.
And, so I started last year
just making sure that our themes
in feel out
for speaking, listening, reading, writing,
just related to personal wellness.
And then conveniently, we got,
the grade eight curriculum document
for that was new
that just got rolled out, last year.
And just by fluke, they, they match.
They fit quite well.
So we function by inquiry based questions.
They're called these on cat.
And the first one and the last one,
incorporate personal wellness ideas.
So it kind of like it worked itself out.
What I had done
last year made perfect sense.
And then I was able to build off of that.
So essentially, I'm just making sure I'm
hitting all of my personal wellness
outcomes in French.
So they're improving their language
skills, in all aspects,
in all three strands.
But we're doing it
with the personal wellness lens.
I should specify not for all the strands,
for the personal wellness
strands connected to mental fitness,
relationships and wellness
in terms of their French language,
they've built,
a lot of vocabulary, thematic vocabulary
related to the subject matter.
We've had to
learn how to talk about how we feel
and what we think
and our perceptions of the world and, how
to act in relationships and interactions
and those sorts of things.
So they've built the vocabulary
they've built is probably different
than they would have in the past,
because that's what we're focusing on.
So that fluency
has gotten better over time,
especially where
I started the year with it,
and then I'm ending the year with it.
I've also noticed middle schoolers
like to talk about themselves,
so the topic is very tangible for them.
They understand the importance of it
and the relevance, and it matters to them,
like relationships and ideas and,
things that they can actually do
and act on and that they already know.
They know how to be healthy
to some extent.
They don't necessarily know how to deal
with bad situations.
So that's been nice to see, them grow.
And in the past with health often
or personal wellness, it's taught in
like little like ten week increments
and then they move on.
And I'm not sure they go deep into it, not
through the fault of anyone, just time.
But they're stuck with me all year.
So throughout the whole year,
even when we weren't doing
personal wellness, I could draw
on those skills that they learned.
So it it was kind of cross-curricular
all year long.
So it was it was just easier, I think.
And I think overall their learning of
the personal on this curriculum is deeper
because it's kind of an all year thing
as opposed to ten weeks and you're done.
One of the big kind of challenges
or conveniences
for me
is the fact that I am teaching them.
Actually, the group's three subjects,
because I also teach them social studies.
And in fact, I do cross-curricular
a social studies component,
the career Planning and Personal wellness
I also address through social studies.
So it is a scheduling convenience for me
so that for someone
who hasn't really thought of that before,
it is an issue.
You have to see those students, in both
subjects for, I think for it to work
the way it has for me.
I also think it can be done in language
arts, not just French immersion.
I just happen to teach French immersion,
but I think language arts
teachers could leverage that time as well.
So it doesn't have to be just the CLA.
But I
do think there is a benefit
in having them.
You have to be responsible
for both curriculums.
I think for it to to be able to dig in
the way that we've been able to this year.
The other thing is to recognize
that you're not going to touch all you're
not going to get all those outcomes
done in personal wellness.
You kind of have to let the kids guide
you a little bit.
So there's some things I touched on
just because this group this year
didn't seem to need so much on.
I'm trying to think on,
discrimination
and anti-discrimination that we did.
We talked about it,
but I didn't dig into that so much.
Because we're seeing a lot of issues
a social media and all of that.
So I kind of focused on that
with this group.
But maybe next year it'll be different.
So you kind of have to let them guide you
a little bit and see what they need.
That's the nice part of personal wellness
you can sort of see as a group dynamic,
what may be lacking in those kids
and kind of steer in that direction.
I think my reflection is
twofold.
The first is, I'm glad
that I had kind of started that before
the curriculum came out,
and it just by fluke, worked out,
and I'm thankful for it
because it has allowed me to continue
the way I thought it should go anyway.
So that was helpful.
I would say I will likely.
I'm hopeful
that my schedule allows it every year
because I've seen the the benefits.
I still have a lot to do.
I'm going to be redoing it
every year, changing things, and so on.
But I've really
at first
we were overwhelmed as fellow teachers.
Oh gosh, you want me to teach French
and social studies and personal wellness,
but you're only giving me two periods,
two subjects worth of time.
And it was overwhelming.
But when you just step back and you.
You see that,
you know, you can use language
as the vehicle to learn the topics.
It's really not so bad.
And I've actually enjoyed it really,
because it's you get to know the kids more
because you're talking about them.
So there's a whole lot of
benefits, I think, to that.